hello and welcome to it's a jungle out
there over the series so far we've
looked into Toxocara fleas and ticks
which can seriously damage your pets
well-being we've offered some advice
along the way to tackle these pests and
keep your pets happy and healthy today
we're talking about Langlois a hidden
danger we can prove denne very failure
it's incredible that many dog owners
have never even heard of it but it's a
potentially fatal disease for man's best
friend
the lungworm anjos strongest Mizoram is
a parasite transmitted to dogs when they
swallow infected slugs and snails the
adult of this long worm lives in the
heart and major blood vessels supplying
the lungs where it can cause a host of
problems the adult releases eggs which
are carried to the lungs in the
bloodstream where they hatch into larvae
these larvae are cuffed up and then
swallowed and passed out in the dog's
poop a slug or a snail known as an
intermediate host becomes infected with
the larvae when crawling over the poo
and the larvae develop inside them when
the slow go snail is eaten by a dog the
larvae burrow out of the gut and make
their way to the dog's heart where they
mature to adults and begin laying eggs
again you can see in this footage the
way long worm moves through the heart
symptoms can be variable but often
include breathing problems coughing
lethargy excessive bleeding and other
general changes in behavior or health
sometimes there are no symptoms at all
it's also important to remember that
long worm is preventable as well as
treatable we're looking for evidence for
snails and slugs leaving this silver
trail have and they are gastropod which
means they have to move on their stomach
so they
need lubrication so then do that oh now
that's a garden snail and you've gone to
bed because it hasn't been raining and
they really don't like getting dry too
much and he's into it and I'm gonna be
right back so he go on crawling and do
things that Oh
snail do and here is evidence that the
foxes are trying to hit in to this
garden and unfortunately they do carry a
very very nasty thing called a lungworm
and nobody nobody want to get that this
looks habits generally is they sleep
during the day and they come out at
night and they especially like wet and
warm weather
they breed over winter they can eat
anything for temperatures above 5
degrees Celsius they will come out into
the garden so even if we have a warm
winter then they will come out and eat
all of our winter plants as well at the
moment we're seeing obviously a great
amount of slugs and snails in the garden
and generally because we've had a lot of
mild winters although we had the cold
snaps they've not been long enough to
kill off any slugs and snails that have
been in the garden so they're having
perfect breeding grounds we've been in
the situation where she has
Eitan or we thought was she at a snail
and she doubt that point been treated
for long one so the vet just told us to
look out for any kind of symptoms there
were unusual kind of behavior from her
that she might seem fun
I think it's something that every panda
regardless of the pet should take
notices obviously their pets health and
they're gonna be happier pets and you're
gonna get more enjoyment out of them so
I think it's something that the owners
should be a lot more aware of there are
many species of lungworm but angyeo
strongest bezoar 'm is the one that can
be life-threatening to dogs this is real
serious
however younger dogs seem to be more
prone to picking up the parasite
staggeringly eighty four percent of
people still don't know the symptoms of
lungworm infection in dogs potentially
putting nearly 8.2 million of the UK's
beloved canines at risk
female lungworm can carry thousands and
thousands of eggs just take a look at
this
so inform the whole family about the
relevance of slugs and snails housing
lungworm and the dangers associated with
dogs eating slugs and snails it's wise
to check and change your dog water
regularly slugs often crawl into water
bowls and could be accidentally consumed
by your dog they don't have to be big
fat slobs either since the little ones
can carry lungworm - don't encourage
foxes your goal
keep your rubbish in a bin where Fox you
can't reach if you're at all concerned
that your dog may be infected with the
long worm you could do something about
it speak to your vet as soon as possible
but it should be noted that standard
rumors are not always effective against
this parasite the only licensed product
that treats and prevents Ang's strongest
for Zoram comes in a monthly spot-on
preparation which is only available from
veterinary surgeries